Add SCIM provisioning documentation for HCP (#2561)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/hcp-docs/content/docs/hcp/iam/scim/okta.mdx

---
page_title: Configure SCIM for Okta
description: |-
  Learn how to enable SCIM provisioning for Okta on HCP.
# START AUTO GENERATED METADATA, DO NOT EDIT
created_at: 2026-06-17T01:09:30.000Z
last_modified: 2026-06-17T01:09:30.000Z
# END AUTO GENERATED METADATA
---

# Configure SCIM for Okta

This topic describes how to configure SCIM (System for Cross-domain Identity Management) provisioning on HashiCorp Cloud Platform (HCP) for Okta. Refer to the [SCIM overview](/hcp/docs/hcp/iam/scim) to learn about SCIM in HCP. 

## Prerequisites

> - You must configure SAML SSO in your organization for Entra ID. Refer to [Set up SAML SSO](/hcp/docs/hcp/iam/sso/setup/saml) for instructions.

Reviewer: should this say Okta instead?

> - You must configure SAML SSO in your organization for Entra ID. Refer to [Set up SAML SSO](/hcp/docs/hcp/iam/sso/setup/saml) for instructions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You must configure SAML SSO in your organization for Okta. Refer to [Set up SAML SSO](/hcp/docs/hcp/iam/sso/setup/saml) for instructions.
```

1. Click **Organization settings** and then **SCIM provisioning**.
1. Click **Enable SCIM provisioning**.
1. Click **Generate SCIM token**.
1. Copy and save the token value. You need this token to configure your identity provider.
1. Copy the **Base URL**. You need this URL to configure your identity provider.

Keep the HCP page open so that you can return to it after configuring Okta.

## Configure Okta

After you enable SCIM on HCP, configure your identity provider to sync users and groups to HCP. 

1. Sign in to Okta.
1. In the **Application** tab, select **Browse App Catalog**.
1. Navigate to your custom application for HCP.
1. Click on the **Provisioning** tab, then click on **Configure API integration**.
1. Enable the **Enable API Integration** option and configure the following fields:

    - In the** Base URL** field, enter the value from the **Base URL** field you copied from HCP.
    - In the **API Token** field, type `Bearer <value of the SCIM token you copied from HCP>`.

1. To verify the configuration, click **Test API Credentials**. 
1. Click **Save**.

### Configure Okta provisioning settings

> After verifying the connection, new settings appear under the **Provisioning** tab of your custom application for HPC.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After verifying the connection, new settings appear under the **Provisioning** tab of your custom application for HCP.
```

1. Click **Edit**, then enable the following options:
    - **Create users**
    - **Update User Attributes**
    - **Deactivate Users**
1. To assign users and groups, click on the **Assignments** tab and select **Assign**. After enabling assignments, Okta creates and updates users in HCP. 

### Map Okta attributes to users in HCP

The following attributes are supported for users in Okta. Refer to the [Okta documentation](https://support.okta.com/help/s/article/How-to-Map-an-Attribute-From-Okta-to-an-Application?language=en_US) for information about mapping Okta attributes. 

> | Okta attribute | SCIM attribute | Required |

Author: @tbalasavage , @marydodo  mentioned this table has some inaccuracies. Could you double check? For example, `emails` doesnt work. But `email` does.

Reviewer: @katiesteinfeldt , @neatchu , could you please take a look at this? I think it's a typographical error

| :------------- | :------------- | :------- |
| `userName` | `userName` | Yes |
| `name.givenName` | `name.givenName` | Yes |
| `name.familyName` | `name.familyName` | Yes |

> | `emails` | `emails` | Yes |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `email` | `email` | Yes |
```

### Map Okta attributes to groups in HCP

| Okta attribute | SCIM attribute | Required |
| :------------- | :------------- | :------- |
| `displayName` | `displayName` | Yes |
| `members` | `members` | No |
| `externalId` | `externalId` | No |

## Assign roles

> It is optional, but after configuring Entra ID, return to the SCIM provisioning page as described in [Enable SCIM provisioning on HCP](#enable-scim-provisioning-on-hcp). Click **View role assignets** to view and manage roles in your account. The role-based access control (RBAC) system in HCP define which actions members of your organizations and projects can perform. Refer to [Access Management](/hcp/docs/hcp/iam/access-management) for more information about RBAC in HCP and instructions on how to manage and assign roles.

Reviewer: should this say okta?

> It is optional, but after configuring Entra ID, return to the SCIM provisioning page as described in [Enable SCIM provisioning on HCP](#enable-scim-provisioning-on-hcp). Click **View role assignets** to view and manage roles in your account. The role-based access control (RBAC) system in HCP define which actions members of your organizations and projects can perform. Refer to [Access Management](/hcp/docs/hcp/iam/access-management) for more information about RBAC in HCP and instructions on how to manage and assign roles.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is optional, but after configuring Okta, return to the SCIM provisioning page as described in [Enable SCIM provisioning on HCP](#enable-scim-provisioning-on-hcp). Click **View role assignments** to view and manage roles in your account. The role-based access control (RBAC) system in HCP define which actions members of your organizations and projects can perform. Refer to [Access Management](/hcp/docs/hcp/iam/access-management) for more information about RBAC in HCP and instructions on how to manage and assign roles.
```
